README.md, before:

# Rails Execution
Rails Execution is an Engine to manage the Rails scripts for migration, cleanup, and fixing the bad data without deployment.
- Supported the Syntax checker
- Supported the Execution logs
- Supported the Reviewing process
- Supported the Attachment files
- Supported the Comments communication
- Supported the Activities tracking


![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6081795/193129359-fc1e8858-c3e7-4376-be1e-ca453890a98d.png)
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6081795/193129792-39176d6e-97fa-4a47-8541-30e7169841cd.png)

## Installation

Add the following line to your **Gemfile**:

```ruby
gem 'rails_execution'
```
Then run `bundle install`


## Getting started

### How to setup
You need to run the generator:
```bash
    $ rails g rails_execution:install
```
And you can change the config in `config/initializers/rails_execution.rb`

Default is `Solo Mode`, without the Reviewing process.

#### Enable the Reviewing process
The first step is to disable the  `Solo Mode`
```ruby
    config.solo_mode = false
```
And then uncomment the configures of the `owner` and `reviewers`
```ruby
    config.owner_model = 'User'
    config.owner_method = :current_user
    config.owner_name_method = :name
    config.owner_avatar = ->(owner) { owner.avatar.url }
  
    config.reviewers = -> do
      User.where(is_admin: true).map do |user|
        {
          name: user.name,
          id: user.id,
          type: 'User',
          avatar_url: user.avatar.url,
        }
      end
    end
```

#### Enable the Attachment files
Run the generator to add the **FileUploader** and **FileReader**
```bash
    $ rails g rails_execution:file_upload
```
And then uncomment the file upload
```ruby
  config.file_upload = true
  config.file_uploader = ::RailsExecution::FileUploader
  config.file_reader = ::RailsExecution::FileReader
```
To limit the File types. Default: `.png`, `.gif`, `.jpg`, `.jpeg`, `.pdf`, `.csv`
You can modify the limitation like this
```ruby
  config.acceptable_file_types = {
    '.jpeg': 'image/jpeg',
    '.pdf': 'application/pdf',
    '.csv': ['text/csv', 'text/plain'],
  }
```

#### Control the Permissions
For example with  *[Pundit](https://github.com/varvet/pundit)* authorization.
```ruby
  config.task_creatable = lambda do |user|
    YourPolicy.new(user).creatable?
  end
  config.task_editable = lambda do |task, user|
    YourPolicy.new(user, task).editable?
  end
  config.task_closable = lambda do |task, user|
    YourPolicy.new(user, task).closable?
  end
  config.task_approvable = lambda do |task, user|
    YourPolicy.new(user, task).approvable?
  end
  config.task_executable = lambda do |task, user|
    YourPolicy.new(user, task).executable?
  end
```

#### Setup the Logger
To storage the logfile
```ruby
  config.logging = lambda do |file, task|
    LoggerModel.create!(task: task, file: file)
  end
```
And list the logfiles on Task page
```ruby
  config.logging_files = lambda do |task|
    LoggerModel.where(task: task).map do |log|
      log.file.expiring_url(30.minutes.to_i)
    end
  end
```

#### Others
To change the Per page of the tasks list.
Default value: `20`
```ruby
  config.per_page = 10
```

#### Pro-tips
##### Logging
- In editor, you can call the `log` method with `message` to log the message to logfile

  Example:
  ```ruby
  log('Read upload file successful')
  ```
  Output:
  ```
  ==================== Wed, 22 Mar 2023 00:31:48
  Read upload file successful
  ```

  And within the label liked it
  ```ruby
  log('Success', 'Read upload file')
  ```
  Output:
  ```
  ==================== Success
  Read upload file
  ```

##### Show object Information

- If you want to show the object information in loop or in the step by step, you can use the `info` method to show **Model name** and **id**.
  ```ruby
  ids = [1, 2]
  Product.where(id: ids).each do |product|
    info(product)
    # Your code to process the product
  end
  ```
  
  Output: 
  ```
  ==================== Product#1
  ==================== Product#2
  ```

##### Force to stop the process
  If you want to add the message to log and **STOP** process, you can use the `error!` method

Example:
  ```ruby
  error!('Bad-data', 'Unmatched value!') if var_x != var_y
  ```
  Output:
  ```
  ==================== Bad-data
  Unmatched value!
  ==================== Rolling back...
  ```
OR you can use the `stop!` method to Stop the process

Example:
```ruby
stop!
```
or
```ruby
stop!('bad-data')
```

Commit message:

Upgrade Rails Execution features
Upgrade Rails Execution features

Upgrade Rails Execution features

Upgrade Rails Execution features

Update readme

Apply Mr.Khoa's suggestions

Apply Mr.Khoa's suggestions

Update readme

Apply Mr.Khoa's suggestions

Change schedule logic

Remove rubocop config

Remove schedule job when script change

apply suggestions

README.md, after:

# Rails Execution
Rails Execution is an Engine to manage the Rails scripts for migration, cleanup, and fixing the bad data without deployment.
- Supported the Syntax checker
- Supported the Execution logs
- Supported the Reviewing process
- Supported the Attachment files
- Supported the Comments communication
- Supported the Activities tracking


![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6081795/193129359-fc1e8858-c3e7-4376-be1e-ca453890a98d.png)
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6081795/193129792-39176d6e-97fa-4a47-8541-30e7169841cd.png)

## Installation

Add the following line to your **Gemfile**:

```ruby
gem 'rails_execution'
```
Then run `bundle install`


## Getting started

### How to setup
You need to run the generator:
```bash
    $ rails g rails_execution:install
```
And you can change the config in `config/initializers/rails_execution.rb`

Default is `Solo Mode`, without the Reviewing process.

#### Enable the Reviewing process
The first step is to disable the  `Solo Mode`
```ruby
    config.solo_mode = false
```
And then uncomment the configures of the `owner` and `reviewers`
```ruby
    config.owner_model = 'User'
    config.owner_method = :current_user
    config.owner_name_method = :name
    config.owner_avatar = ->(owner) { owner.avatar.url }
  
    config.reviewers = -> do
      User.where(is_admin: true).map do |user|
        {
          name: user.name,
          id: user.id,
          type: 'User',
          avatar_url: user.avatar.url,
        }
      end
    end
```

#### Enable the Attachment files
Run the generator to add the **FileUploader** and **FileReader**
```bash
    $ rails g rails_execution:file_upload
```
And then uncomment the file upload
```ruby
  config.file_upload = true
  config.file_uploader = ::RailsExecution::FileUploader
  config.file_reader = ::RailsExecution::FileReader
```
To limit the File types. Default: `.png`, `.gif`, `.jpg`, `.jpeg`, `.pdf`, `.csv`
You can modify the limitation like this
```ruby
  config.acceptable_file_types = {
    '.jpeg': 'image/jpeg',
    '.pdf': 'application/pdf',
    '.csv': ['text/csv', 'text/plain'],
  }
```

#### Control the Permissions
For example with  *[Pundit](https://github.com/varvet/pundit)* authorization.
```ruby
  config.task_creatable = lambda do |user|
    YourPolicy.new(user).creatable?
  end
  config.task_editable = lambda do |task, user|
    YourPolicy.new(user, task).editable?
  end
  config.task_closable = lambda do |task, user|
    YourPolicy.new(user, task).closable?
  end
  config.task_approvable = lambda do |task, user|
    YourPolicy.new(user, task).approvable?
  end
  config.task_executable = lambda do |task, user|
    YourPolicy.new(user, task).executable?
  end
```

#### Setup the Logger
To storage the logfile
```ruby
  config.logging = lambda do |file, task|
    LoggerModel.create!(task: task, file: file)
  end
```
And list the logfiles on Task page
```ruby
  config.logging_files = lambda do |task|
    LoggerModel.where(task: task).map do |log|
      log.file.expiring_url(30.minutes.to_i)
    end
  end
```

In case you want to render logs more fancy in the view, you need to return list of file and created_at
```ruby
  config.logging_files = lambda do |task|
    LoggerModel.where(task: task).map do |log|
      [log.file.expiring_url(30.minutes.to_i), log.created_at]
    end
  end
```


#### Enable Task Schedule
Depend on which gem you use to schedule a job you need to modify the block inside lambda function to invoke `::RailsExecution::Services::TaskScheduler.call(task_id)`

In this case `Sidekiq` is used with option `delay_until` and set to run at `scheduled_at`

```ruby
  config.task_schedulable = true
  config.task_scheduler = ->(scheduled_at, task_id) { ::RailsExecution::Services::TaskScheduler.delay_until(scheduled_at).call(task_id) }
  config.scheduled_task_remover = ->(task_id) { Sidekiq::ScheduledSet.new.find_job(jid).delete }
```

#### Enable Task Background
Depend on which gem you use to run background job you need to modify the block inside lambda function to invoke `::RailsExecution::Services::BackgroundExecution.call(task_id)`
```ruby
  config.task_background = true
  config.task_background_executor = ->(task_id) { ::RailsExecution::Services::BackgroundExecution.delay.call(task_id) }
```

#### Others
To change the Per page of the tasks list.
Default value: `20`
```ruby
  config.per_page = 10
```

#### Pro-tips
##### Logging
- In editor, you can call the `log` method with `message` to log the message to logfile

  Example:
  ```ruby
  log('Read upload file successful')
  ```
  Output:
  ```
  ==================== Wed, 22 Mar 2023 00:31:48
  Read upload file successful
  ```

  And within the label liked it
  ```ruby
  log('Success', 'Read upload file')
  ```
  Output:
  ```
  ==================== Success
  Read upload file
  ```

##### Show object Information

- If you want to show the object information in loop or in the step by step, you can use the `info` method to show **Model name** and **id**.
  ```ruby
  ids = [1, 2]
  Product.where(id: ids).each do |product|
    info(product)
    # Your code to process the product
  end
  ```
  
  Output: 
  ```
  ==================== Product#1
  ==================== Product#2
  ```

##### Force to stop the process
  If you want to add the message to log and **STOP** process, you can use the `error!` method

Example:
  ```ruby
  error!('Bad-data', 'Unmatched value!') if var_x != var_y
  ```
  Output:
  ```
  ==================== Bad-data
  Unmatched value!
  ==================== Rolling back...
  ```
OR you can use the `stop!` method to Stop the process

Example:
```ruby
stop!
```
or
```ruby
stop!('bad-data')
```
